Title: Coming Home
----
Date: 31.10.2012
----
Featured_Image: (image: 02-coming-going-2.jpg alt: One journey's end, another's beginning)
----
Summary: A short post on how my trip to North America changed my perspective on community and what I intend on doing to help make Ireland a better place for designers.
----
Text: I have been travelling around North America for a little over three months. To say it has been fun is an understatement. My experiences during this time have genuinely changed my perspective on the world and how I can have an effect on it. 

Throughout this trip I have met some truly incredible people. I have regularly been complimented by a lot of them for my energy, my positivity and my enthusiasm. I am humbled by this anytime anyone says it to me. I have also been overcome when—every now and then—people would tell me I should move to their cities, that I should work with them, work for them or find a way to stay longer. This above anything else has been my biggest struggle during my journey. Here's why.

In the time I have spent in North America I have seen a strong community with a feverish desire to create, to make great things and with an intent to have a positive impact on things more important than their bank balance. When you bring like-minded, hard-working, driven people together; it creates an addicting atmosphere, one that is hard to leave once you are involved. However, I feel that it is my job—not to become another member of an established group but—to be part of a driving force behind encouraging this same atmosphere in Ireland. I feel strongly that I can have an effect in my country. I want to make Ireland a place where creators feel empowered, a place where we understand our value goes beyond making apps, designing logo's and building products. I want to foster the mentality that we as creators can actively and positively change the world around us. What if the next big thing was not another Facebook but a new way to approach teaching, or healthcare, the law even. 

This may seem idealistic but honestly, I feel that it is simply a case of broadening our perspective. We need to see beyond the trivial and set our sites on bigger, more challenging problems—the rewards of solving which are beyond measure.

We can, as a community, achieve incredible things.

This is a statement of intent. It is a line in the sand that I am drawing for myself. It is a symbol of accountability. If I fail, I am counting on you to remind of that fact so I can pick myself up, and try again.

My plans to be held accountable for:

1. Continue to build a community that values cultural and societal capital over purely making money—I say continue because we've started with (link: http://crafthou.se text: Crafthouse).

2. Create a co-working space in Dublin that will serve as a hub for this community–this will be done with a lot of help from others.

3. Make something that puts these ideals into practice. If I'm not trying to make an impact myself, why should I expect anyone else to.

—Kilian
----
