Title: 10th of January

----

Date: 10.01.2013

----

Location: Shibuya, JP

----

Text: "Number 25" the airport official said, gesturing towards a little booth. As I walked over to booth 25 I had one of those "Oh yeah" moments. I completely forgot that some Japanese people wear face masks.

The girl at the border check went through the form I'd filled out during the flight, took finger print scans and grabbed a quick picture before stamping and approving my passport. I can't say her mask wasn't off-putting. I selfishly wondered "Does she think I'm unclean or something?", then batted that thought away when I considered the amount of people she must deal with in a day. It made sense to be cautious. Still, talking to someone who has a surgical mask on is a little odd, what was stranger still was walking out into the train station and seeing how many others were wearing them too.

After some quick back and forth-ing in the train station—I have fully accepted that for this entire trip I will look like a lost tourist—I found the spot to redeem my rail pass and booked a train  to Shibuya. It was a nice little journey. Narita airport is about an hour and a half train journey outside of Tokyo so it meant that I got to see some of the country-side on my way in. 

Everything just seemed cool.I saw legions of small cars, fields full of yellowed stalks from whatever crops the farmers were growing and those quintessential Japanese style roofs. At one point I very much felt like I was in a Studio Ghibli film.

Once I arrived at the station I tried to make my way to the hotel.  I should note that in the world before maps on phones I'm still wandering around Shibuya looking for my hotel. Thankfully the map worked just fine and I got to the Granbell; a lovely little place with friendly staff and nice modern decor. I was a little early to check in so the girl at the desk took my bag and I went off in search of food.

I decided to have a quick look on Foursquare for a suggestion. There was a Ramen spot which wasn't too far away so I ventured out to try and find it. At first I had a little trouble actually getting to the street it was on but once I did I saw a little queue forming outside. This was a good sign. I looked at the menu—I stared into a field. One of the staff came out to check numbers in the queue. He put one finger up looked at me. I copied, nodded and said yes. When the next person walked out of the restaurant I went inside, through the hanging cloth they had over the door way. It still seemed full so I waited at the entrance to what I now realised was a very tiny place. It was cozy, with good smells of ramen and whatever else they were cooking. Also there was a lot of slurping going on. As I waited for my seat I scanned the room. There was some form of ticket machine beside me. It looked important. I stared at it for clues. There were buttons, some slots for coins, bills and something that denoted different prices. When the waiter called me over to a recently vacated seat he gestured to the machine. I obviously looked puzzled as he came down to explain. "Ramen", he said pointing to the first button. He paused, thinking. "Ramen with egg, ramen with pork". I nodded in understanding, put in my recently acquired yen and pressed the pork button. The food was delicious. I don't know what they did with that egg but it was amazing and the broth that the noodles were steeped in was incredibly flavoursome.

At this stage I had walked around for a good bit and was feeling the tiredness. I really just wanted to lie down, maybe get onto the wifi in the hotel and have a nap. I thought I'd chance my arm and go back to see if my room was ready early, and it was. The small but wonderful hotel room had all the essentials. Bed, desk, shower and one of those crazy Japanese toilets. Yes, I tried out all the buttons. It was hilarious. I showered to get that travel grime off me, closed the curtains, turned off the lights and slept. Glorious sleep.

I woke up maybe three hours later feeling good. The room had been pretty warm but exhaustion didn't care. I blearily reached for my phone. What to do? It was coming up on 7pm so food was certainly a possibility. I tapped Tweetbot to catch up with home. As I scrolled through the feed I caught a glimpse of some Japanese characters. It was Craig Mod posting a link. I decided to check it out and to my pleasant surprise it was a Facebook event for a talk he was giving at the Apple store in Ginza that night. I looked at the time, quickly checked how far away it was on the train and decided to go along. Andy McMillan had done an email intro the previous week so I thought it would be fun to go down and say hello in person. I got dressed and headed out to get my train. Even at that time of the evening the station was bustling with activity. 

Stepping out into the air at the Ginza stop I was greeted by tall buildings and bright lights. It felt like the Tokyo I had imagined.

Jump to me walking in the back of a presentation room on the third floor of the Apple store where at the front of the room is Mr. Craig Mod speaking—to my ears—perfect Japanese. It was very impressive. He showed slide after slide, some of which I recognised, but mostly I hadn't a clue what he saying to the attendees. I could pick up tiny bits and pieces and every now and then I would correspond something he said to the Hiragana characters I recognised from his slides. He was speaking about publishing, some of which he had covered in his Sub Compact post from a couple of weeks ago. He also talked about Flipboard and I must say that hearing someone say "Flip Flop" in a Japanese accent is tremendous—fuhlipuh fuhlop.

I went up to him after the talk and introduced myself. He was a lovely chap and after a brief conversation about places to visit in Japan, I thanked him and headed on my merry way. At this point I felt it was about time to grab some food. I stuck 'Sushi' into foursquare and had a poke around. I followed the streets to the marker but there was some iOS map shenanigans afoot because there was no Sushi spot on that street. I turned down another street close by and spied a menu propped up. There were fish on it and things that looked vaguely Sushi related so I went on down the stairs slid open the door and was greeted by a smiling man who showed me to my seat.

It was a wonderful little place. I was seated up in front of the chef's as they prepared the food. At first I stared blankly at the menu. It was all in Japanese. After maybe 2 minutes of me staring at the menu a lady came out with a glass of water and a laminated English menu. I was incredibly relieved. I decided on blue fin tuna maki and a bowl of assorted sushi over rice. The maki was so delicious. That came out first so I tucked into it straight away. The seaweed had a light hint of wasabi and the fish was very tasty. A minute or two later I was presented with a lidded bowl. I used the only Japanese I had learned—arigato gozaimasu—and took the bowl. On removing the lid I'm pretty sure I said wow out load. It was fantastic. There were all sorts of fish, a bunch of random colourful things and somewhere under all that was some rice.

(image: 01-crazy-sushi-bowl.jpg)

I decided to be adventurous and give everything in there a taste. Even the vegetable stuff. I could identify salmon, tuna, prawn, tofu, mushrooms, salmon roe and a big ole blob of wasabi in the middle. Everything else was a mystery. I started with the familiar lads and then slowly ventured into the other bits. Apart from the squiddy looking stuff which was an odd combination between oily and slimy everything else was pleasant. I ate as much as I could of the stuff I enjoyed, drank my water and paid the bill. I said my one Japanese phrase as I left and that was that.

I made my way back to the hotel. When I asked about wifi at the front desk they gave me a mini router for my room so I could connect, which worked an absolute treat. To all other hotels: Take note! I contacted my friend Sena to finalise some details for picking me up from the train station in Tsukuba the following day. With that done, I did a bit of writing for this post, threw on an episode of The West Wing and hit the hay. What a day that was.